SCOTUS Voting Records
Andrew Phillips & Jake Rourke
11.1.2017
FP1

Collaborator: Professor Maron Sorenson, Assistant Professor of Government

Description: We are using the Supreme Court Database, published by Wash U (St.
Louis). We are looking at the Justice-Centered data organized by legal
provision, which includes a set of each justice's votes as well as the the legal
issues and provisions in the case, in every case from 1956 to 2016. This data is
especially interesting because it includes not just descriptive facts about the
case, but also the direction that each justice voted in (conservative or
liberal) given the issue, which can reveal information about the individual
justices' beliefs. Additionally, a wealth of information can be gained from the
63 variables in this dataset, which include chronological variables such as the
date and chief justice, substantive variables about thecase such as the
majority's opinion and direction and the issues at hand, outcome variables about
the decision such as whether or not precedent was overruled, voting variables
about the individual justice such as their own vote and whether or not it was in
the majority, and background variables that are mostly comprised of citation and
identification information.

Brainstorm:
  - Which justices tend to vote conservative or liberal? Is this affected by
    issue area?
  - Do certain chief justices promote unity more than others? How does the 
    chief justice affect the number of votes in the majority or dissent?
  - When are certain justices more likely to side with the majority vs. the 
    minority opinion?
  - Which justices have changed their voting patterns over the years - as in,
    used to vote predominantly liberal or conservative, then flip-flopped?
    Similarly, which justices seem to be politically impartial?
  - What legal provisions are the most contentious?
  - Where do the most cases come from? (either literally, as in geographic)
    location, or as in what sort of dispute
  - When did the court grant certiori to cases of certain issues? Either
    by term or by chief justice
  - When did the court predominantly lean conservative or liberal? In which
    issue areas?
  - Which issues have the most change (precedent is overruled) Is there a
    relationship between amount of change and year, i.e. maybe during certain
    social movements there was more overruling of precedent?
